I'm invoking the ancient
right of Royal Trials.
Whoever wins will rule.
My parents chose
to become Strigoi.
They're looking for me.
That could put Lissa in
real danger if she's with you.
Ahh!
There can never be a question
with me or your charge.
But you felt it--
what we could be.
Every second of it.
But never again.
I don't want you
to be my guardian.
You have no idea what I would
give up for you.
I would die for you!
Yeah, I know you would,
because you did.
You died saving me
in the accident.
I brought you back.
That's why we have this bond
between our spirits.
I can make you king.
The toll it would take would
be too great.
You know that.
- I can handle it.
Slow down.
Please! Ahh!
Sonya!
- Did they find her?
- No.
They won't find a Strigoi.
Sonya will be fine.
Obviously,
she's upset about Mikhail,
so she stayed behind.
We can protect her.
No one has to know.
As we reach the end
of the first trial,
I remind you all
that these ancient trials
were designed to produce
an heir to the throne
robust in body,
in wisdom, and in spirit.
Your candidates,
Lord Victor Dashkov
and Lady Tatiana Vogel,
have spent a long
and grueling day
in a physical endurance test,
braving the four Elements.
Thus, it is the Elements,
not I,
that decide who prevails.
The winner
of the first trial is...
Lady Vogel.
I'll take another.
You've had enough.
Oy!
Sexy.
A Strigoi.
All right.
Upsy daisy.
- No.
- Let's get you home.
- I'm all right.
I'll help you up.
You're up late.
I like the quiet.
It's a shame how few
people I see in here,
off hours or otherwise.
It's a shame
how few people pray at all.
I'm sorry our paths
haven't crossed recently.
I'd hoped we might be friends.
There's room for Dhampir
friendship in your ideology?
My ideology
is rooted in faith,
as is yours.
I believe that makes us
kindred spirits,
if nothing else.
I heard you lost a charge
before you came
to this province.
A friend.
And for three days
after his death,
you were on your knees
before the altar,
just you anchored
in your faith.
I admire that.
Lately, I've been feeling...
unmoored.
Have you ever doubted...
any of it?
All of it?
Every day.
But if faith were easy,
it wouldn't need
to be practiced.
Now!
♪ Gotta fight the power,
ain't miss the flex ♪
♪ I'm feeling happy,
I'm so impressed ♪
♪ And my best self
is my best defense ♪
♪ Can't take a L,
I'm too used to winning ♪
You know,
I thought you'd be rubbish
when you asked me to train you,
but your timing's improving.
You're getting those
off pretty quick.
I need to be faster.
So do I, if they catch me
helping a Moroi secretly use
their magic to fight.
Have you seen Mia around
anywhere last few days?
She's helping Victor
with the trials.
Ah, okay.
Back at her dad's side,
palling around with royals.
Nothing to worry about there.
I liked new Mia.
I just hope it wasn't a phase.
Hi.
Can I--
Christian,
do you have a minute?
Yeah.
Yeah, of course.
So I'm just--I'm gonna--
So what are you
doing out so--
Will you marry me?
There's some really fucked up
things happening around here.
I've already had
to make too many sacrifices,
so if getting married gives
me a voice, so be it.
So whatever happened
to this famous list
of suitable bachelors?
It expanded.
Turns out you have
just enough Dragomir blood
for me to regain my quorum.
But it's just a marriage
of convenience.
Nothing more.
Sure.
That's why you're asking me
and not one
of the approved guys,
for the convenience?
I'm so glad
you find this funny.
Kind of do.
Stop it.
So are you in or not?
There's...
something
you should know first.
What you got there?
Incentive.
Cool mystery shit to dangle,
so you tell me
what happened in Lisbon.
Lissa and I had a fight.
It's not a big deal.
Come on, Rose.
Everyone is asleep.
You can tell me.
I'll show you mine
if you show me yours.
All right.
This is everything
Meredith and I have gathered.
One, the Strigoi went
from being loners
to organizing, coordinating.
Two, Christian's parents
breached the wards
at St. Jude's.
I heard the guardians believe
there was an inside man.
Three, someone has been
leaving Christian gifts
from his parents.
Okay, but why?
Some fucked up show
of love for their son?
17 victims.
That's not a fucked up
show of love.
That's a slaughter.
Those are the two
Dragomir victims.
I met them once on holiday
with Lissa's family,
before everything
turned to utter shit.
Hang on a sec.
Okay, so we think
Strigoi don't have motives
because they're too feral, right?
Yeah.
But when we were in Portugal,
I swear to the Saints
that the same Strigoi
was following us,
and Lissa was
with me both times.
She was in Meredith's convoy
when it got attacked.
Maybe they're not coming
after Christian at all.
Maybe they're coming after her.
Okay, but what
about St. Jude's?
That's how she lost
her shot at being queen
and took out the rest
of her bloodline.
Okay, but what do Strigoi
care about who's queen or not?
They don't,
or at least,
they didn't used to.
So you think that someone
inside the royal court
is conspiring with Strigoi
to take Lissa out?
I think we should accept
that anything is possible.
After my parents
started reaching out,
Rose and I thought
that it wouldn't be safe
for you to be with me.
I can't believe
I didn't know any of this.
Why wouldn't you tell me?
Why wouldn't Rose tell me?
I asked her
to let it be my secret.
But I don't want to keep
anything from you anymore.
I get that.
It's just...
I don't think Rose
has ever kept an actual secret
from me in her life.
Well, I guess
she was protecting you.
Exactly.
Like always.
I'm the royal princess
that needs protecting,
so Rose gives and gives,
and I take and take,
which is why
I'm trying to actually do
something about it.
So again, are you in or not?
I'm in.
I'm so in.
Come, we need to find
Christian, so that we can--
Come on.
They're already waiting for us.
- I know. I know.
- I know. That's what I said.
Round two, Trial by Proxy.
Our candidates will each select
a worthy representative
in battle.
It's fight night, people.
Get ready.
Hey, I've been
looking for you.
Are you okay?
Rose used to always say,
the one good thing
about being a Dhampir
is you don't have
to get married like Moroi do.
She'd make fun of my ridiculous
12-year-old fantasies
of unicorns
and 10,000 gold balloons.
- Wow.
- Yeah.
And though the groom
was always a mystery...
Rose was there...
Wearing a dress
she'd probably hate,
but pretending
she liked it for me.
Even now,
with my parents gone...
I always knew
my best friend would be there.
This isn't a real marriage,
but still...
Nowhere in all my fantasies
did I ever feel this...
Lonely.
I know.
But you don't have to be.
Because I will
always be here for you.
However this came about
and whatever else
this marriage will be,
it will be real to me.
Okay?
- Okay.
So what does this say about
how we're supposed to do this?
So we have
to perform three rites,
a blood-marking ceremony
under the eyes of the Monks...
- Gross, but okay.
- An exchanging of gifts...
Easy enough.
And...
a ceremonial announcement
of our betrothal.
We have to announce ourselves
to the entire court...
in public.
Shit.
All those people judging us.
Can you handle it?
For you, anything.
No, it can't be about Lissa.
How would my parents
even know about us?
No one else does.
What about Jesse Zeklos?
He can come and go through
the walls as he pleases.
He easily could have
smuggled those gifts in.
Convoy in Lisbon.
Didn't you say
he made you all leave early?
He could have been
luring her there.
His dad could have
put him up to it.
Whoever's
behind this is trying
to prevent Lissa's bloodline
from having a vote
on the Council.
Okay, so we think one
of the Elementalist bloodlines
is responsible.
Yes.
Not to mention Dane Zeklos
was angling for the crown
before the queen even
named Andre as heir.
What if--
what if the car accident
that killed Lissa's family...
wasn't an accident at all?
I know you don't want
to talk to me,
but I'm not talking
to anyone else,
because you are still
the person that I trust.
There's more going on
around here than you think,
including possible treason.
Come on, I know
you think we shouldn't
be talking right now, but--
It's not what I think.
It's what has to be.
I've put you at risk.
I've all but put Lissa at risk.
I recall.
I was there,
making my own choices.
Were you?
The only reason
you think you have a choice
is because you were raised
by a powerful Moroi family
who pretended that you
being Dhampir didn't matter.
Maybe if I'd had that,
I'd believe
that I could do anything too,
but I don't.
All I have is this life
and the faith
that's helped me endure it.
I can't lose that, Rose.
It's not
that I don't want to help you.
It's that I can't.
This faith
that you're holding on to
with a death grip
is supporting an unfair system
that is never going to change.
Maybe you should be
the one who does.
I'm sorry.
Am I interrupting something?
I came to watch you train.
I want to see what
I'm putting all my faith in.
Faith in what?
What for?
Guardian Belikov has agreed
to be my champion
in the second trial,
the Trial by Proxy.
Do carry on.
- Did they find her?
- No.
Hey, Dad.
Oh, you just missed Sonya.
She called from her hotel.
Can you ring her back?
She was off to the spa.
Victor, who's your champion?
Really, Rose?
For the second trial, who?
James has never lost
in hand-to-hand combat.
Is that true?
I have a record of 50 and 0.
He won't beat Dimitri,
but I can.
I know how he thinks,
how he moves.
I understand him
better than anyone.
I will win this, so pick me.
* ♪
Lady Eugenie Lee
and her husband,
Lord Vincent Lee.
Lord Peter Tarus
and his wife,
Lady Chelsea Tarus.
Lady Marie Carter
and her gentleman friend.
Lady Batista and her wife,
Lady Andrea Batisa.
Lord Karim Dawoud
and his wife,
Lady Ayesha Dawoud.
- * Amen ♪
* Amen ♪
♪ Watch them battle
for the title ♪
♪ May the best warrior win
over their rivals ♪
♪ Amen ♪
There you have it,
a crowd of suspects.
Dane Zeklos,
Marie Carter, Peter Tarus.
I wish
I could remember the accident.
Maybe I saw something.
Well,
you know who you could ask.
No.
When are you gonna tell me
what she did
that hurt you so much?
I have a fight
to prepare for.
I'm giving you
one opportunity to come clean.
I'm tired, Ozera.
Whatever this is, no.
I know about
your fucked up Strigoi fetish.
I know you're
in contact with my parents,
and I know
you're smuggling packages
through the wards for them.
What the fuck
are you even talking about?
Actually, no,
I don't want to know.
Move.
What did you do
to Lissa's family?
I didn't do shit.
You think I'd stick
my neck out for anyone?
Me?
If anyone is working
with your parents,
maybe look at your own band
of freaky little outcasts.
Because it wasn't fucking me.
♪ Angels and saints beware ♪
Hey.
I love this next part.
♪ Don't you run and hide ♪
♪ Don't you dare fight ♪
♪ Lit by moonlight ♪
Mer, hey.
I feel like I haven't
seen you in forever.
I haven't been hard to find.
No, I know. I'm sorry.
I--
That's okay.
You don't have to apologize.
I get it if.
If your dad wins,
you get everything
you always wanted.
Lord Karim Dawoud.
Lady Ayeesha Dawoud.
Lord Rufus Ivashkov
and his daughter...
Hey, sorry.
Oh, I thought
you'd changed your mind.
Here's my gift to you.
Did you bring yours?
'Cause once we cross this line
and make it public--
I think my parents may
have done something that--
What, Christian?
Done something that what?
May make you hate me.
Lady Vasilissa Dragomir
and her betrothed,
Lord Christian Ozera.
It's too late
to turn back now.
Welcome
to the Trial by Proxy.
Our candidates have each
selected two warriors
to do battle on their behalf.
By grace of the Elements,
let us hope
they have chosen wisely.
Lady Vogel has selected
Guardian Dimitri Belikov.
And Lord Dashkov has selected
Novice Rose Hathaway.
What are you doing here?
I'm here to beat
some sense into you.
Tatiana Vogel is everything
I hate about this place.
- I do what I'm told.
- Right, your fucking duty.
Why are you doing this?
Apparently, it's
the only way you'll listen.
Rose--
You want me to stop?
Win.
You're taking it easy on me.
Or maybe
you're just that good.
Bullshit!
What kind of a champion
refuses to fight?
I don't want to hurt you.
It's too late.
Your honor as a champion is
on the line here, comrade.
Come on.
Our duty
won't let us be together?
Then do your fucking duty.
Yes!
Yes.
That's what I thought.
The winner is Victor Dashkov.
Thank you, champions.
- Let's go!
- Whoo!
Come on!
Fight back.
Fight back!
Fight!
Our third trial
will be Trial by Reverie.
Just up this way.
You okay?
I'm fine.
Because that fight
was kind of fraught.
It's been a fraught
kind of week.
Who's this source
we're talking to?
Someone who might know
something about the night
of the accident.
You want to take a trip?
No, thank you.
What a shit show.
Everyone's here
waving their flags,
buying their drugs,
no idea that someone
inside of these wards
is in league with the Strigoi.
Do you ever want to get
the fuck out of here?
All the time,
but right now...
we both know
what needs to happen.
- No, no.
- Yeah.
You can't just
spring this on me.
Yeah, I can.
And I am.
You're a fucking mess, Rose.
And what's going on
right now is too big
for you to be off your game.
Just talk to your best friend.
Work your shit out, okay?
Thank you.
Hey.
Hi.
I guess, congratulations
on your engagement.
Yeah.
It's complicated.
Christian told me
about your theory.
I was hoping you and I
could find some answers
in our memories of that night.
But I don't remember
anything from the crash.
I know, but I do,
and I can show you.
How are we
supposed to do that?
What you're asking for
is a memory walk.
I've seen those
get quite messy.
Plus, they're not cheap.
We can handle it.
Well then, get comfortable.
This is
the Trial by Reverie.
Our candidates will be
asked a single question
while a flake of St. Vladimir's
dehydrated blood
infused with Elemental magic
is placed on their tongue.
Then they will be led
to a place of reflection,
where they will experience
their reveries.
The first candidate to emerge
with the correct answer
will be declared the winner.
Your question--
what must a good ruler possess
in order to rule
their subjects?
Talking aloud is critical
to a shared memory walk.
You have to tell each
other what you see.
I'm in the car.
I can see your family.
And the trees outside.
I didn't think
we were going so fast.
I see you.
I see you too.
Oh, what is this?
My memory.
No.
* ♪
That'll be 85 mirs, please.
Daddy, Daddy,
Mia was mean to me.
I was not mean to Sonya.
She's just being a baby.
Or maybe what you said
hurt Sonya's feelings.
Because she's a baby.
Because she isn't you.
Sonya isn't like
anyone else, Mia.
So we have to be gentle
with her, protect her.
You don't really want
to hurt her, do you?
No.
Oh, that's my girl.
Remember,
how you treat family says
everything about who you are.
Sorry, Sonya.
Come here.
Victor, have you
the answer to my question,
what must a good ruler possess
to rule their subjects?
I've learned something
very important,
that a Moroi of integrity
must put his family first,
above all.
Love is the gift
of the Saints.
It is pure.
It is unwavering.
It is what will keep
this Dominion whole.
But a ruler is not
just any Moroi,
and love is not enough
to protect our citizens.
Leadership requires sacrifice
for the greater good.
The answer to your question,
Your Majesty,
is that a good ruler must
possess nothing at all.
They must be willing
to give everything they have
in the name of the Dominion.
The crown is yours, Victor.
May your rule be prosperous.
I came to apologize.
I should not have
begun that fight
knowing there was
no way I could do
what I had to do to win.
I'm going to ask to be
reassigned to another province.
My value here has been...
compromised.
You're in love
with that girl, aren't you?
But you can't be with her
without sacrificing the duty
you pledged to the Saints,
so you've chosen
not to be with her at all.
Well, according
to the Elements then,
you'd make a terrific king.
I'm gonna let you
into a little secret, Dimitri.
In the Reverie, I was hoping
to see someone I cherish,
who I lost.
But I didn't.
It's hard wanting something
you can't have, isn't it?
♪ Better get to running ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm no good ♪
♪ No good ♪
* I'm no good ♪
* No, darling ♪
I don't even know
why I'm so shocked.
I shouldn't be.
- You should.
We all should.
It should never have happened.
If they were willing
to do what they did,
having a seat on the Council
isn't nearly enough.
I need to fight.
We need to fight.
When your family died,
I kept thinking
that as long
as you and I were together,
that everything would be okay,
that somehow we could
preserve some little part
of that life before the crash,
one where Moroi versus Dhampirs
didn't matter,
and we could keep living
that sweet lie,
untouched
by all the bullshit around us.
But we can't.
And I don't want to.
I mean, you were right.
We both need to find our way...
without each other.
Wait.
What does that mean, Rose?
What does that mean?
Such wonderful news.
I heard
you finally got the girl.
Honey, are you okay?
Not really, no.
If you're having a tiff
with Lissa,
it will pass.
You'll see.
I'm not sure it can, but...
thank you.
Anybody else would have
thought I was crazy to think
that Lissa and I would ever--
but you,
you supported
my relationship...
Right from the start.
It was Diane, not Jesse.
I mean, she's the only one
who knew about you and me.
She gets escorted
outside the wards every day
along with all the Feeders.
I mean, she must be
in contact with my parents.
She must have some kind of...
What is it?
You were right.
Rose and I
remembered everything.
Your parents were there.
- No.
- They murdered my family.
Fuck!
Fuck.
I'm so sorry.
I don't even know what to say.
You don't have
to say anything.
Your parents are not you.
Their choices don't define you.
Their actions don't mark you.
And I'm sorry for everyone
who's ever made you
feel otherwise.
You are a good person, Christian.
One of the best.
But...
When I marry you,
I want music, and laughter,
and friends...
And to be able to look forward,
not back.
I want it to feel right
in every way possible.
But right now, all I feel
is pain and rage.
We never stood a chance,
did we?
Um...
here.
In case I'm not
around to translate.
Flooded eyes in a room full
of lies ♪
♪ So what are we
fighting for? ♪
♪ Cut out my heart
with a switchblade knife ♪
♪ Now what are we
fighting for? ♪
♪ Fighting for ♪
♪ What are we fighting for? ♪
♪ Oh, what are we
fighting for? ♪
I have to tell you something.
All of this...
everything that's happened...
it's is too much.
I have to get out of here.
No, Rose.
I have to be loyal
to myself for a change.
I need to make my life count.
Remember when you thought
I'd get expelled,
and you offered to go with me?
I was just wondering
if the offer still stands.
What?
I mean,
I know we were at the bar,
and we were drinking
and everything, but--
Yes, Rose.
Yes.
We're so proud of you.
A ruler must be willing
to give up everything he has?
I was a little nervous.
He didn't mean literally.
You'll make
this Dominion a better place
for our children, my love.
I only wish Sonya was here
to celebrate with us.
We spoke
just before the trial.
She said this was all worth it.
It is customary
for the runner-up
to present a gift
to the winner,
and tonight,
the Elements have declared
Lord Victor Dashkov
your next king.
Lady Vogel,
are you ready
to present your gift?
Indeed,
it is customary that I should
give a concession speech
and congratulate the winner.
And under normal circumstances,
I would be happy to do so,
but these aren't
normal circumstances.
We have shamed the Elements
with the choice
of Victor Dashkov
during these trials.
They could have never
have chosen a man so sick
in body and in faith
that he would allow
this to happen.
Sonya!